[[M2_Korolev.pdf#page=3&selection=33,0,196,81|M2_Korolev, page 3]]

Sergei Pavlovich Korolev (1907-1966) is the founder of the Soviet space program. Korolev, like many of his colleagues, went through Stalin's prisons and later participated in the search for rocket technology in occupied Germany. His energy, intelligence, belief in the prospects of space flight, managerial abilities and skills in decision-making made him the head of the first Soviet rocket development center. He deserves the most credits for turning rocket weapons into an instrument of space exploration and making the Soviet Union the world's first space-faring nation. 

Sergei Korolev was born on January 12, 1907, in the city of Zhitomir in present day Ukraine, in the family of a Russian language teacher.

In 1922 Sergei Korolev passed qualifying exams at the Odessa professional construction school. At the time, Sergei was already interested in aviation. 

In 1924, Korolev was transferred to the Kiev Polytechnic Institute, where he joined a group of glider enthusiasts. Two years later Korolev moved to Moscow's Bauman High Technical School, the best engineering college in Russia. 

Korolev graduated from the university in 1929 and in 1931 he joined the Central Aero and Hydrodynamics Institute. In July 1932, Korolev was appointed chief of Jet Propulsion Research Group. In 1933, the group was reorganized into the Jet Propulsion Research Institute, where Korolev worked as Deputy Chief of the institute. The development of cruise missiles and of a manned rocket-powered glider was led by Korolev. 

At the peak of his career, Korolev led the development of the world's first ballistic missile, which are known today as R-7. They became a base for a long-lasting family of space boosters, carrying Russian cosmonauts into orbit for decades in the future. 

In the following years, several generations of ballistic missiles, artificial science, military and communications satellites, interplanetary probes and manned space vehicles were being developed. The Soyuz spacecraft which turned 40 years in operation in 2006, was created and launched under his guidance. Korolev died at the height of his career on January 14, 1966.

Due to secret nature of the Soviet space industry, Korolev's contribution to the space program was publically recognized by the Soviet authorities only after his death. 